Q1: Six new players L,M,N,O,P and Q were selected to represent the Indian Cricket Team. Their skills were Fast Bowler, Opening Batsman, Wicket Keeper, Spinner, Middle Order Batsman and Medium Pace bowler. Each one belonged to one of the states UP, MP, Gujarat, Delhi, Maharashtra and Bihar not necessarily in the same order. While the category bowlers includes all the 3 types, the category Batsman includes both the Batsmen. Each State is represented by exactly 1 person. P belongs to Maharashtra and is not a bowler. The Wicket Keeper is either O or M and belongs to either Delhi or Bihar. Q is the Fast Bowler from MP. The Opening Batsman and the Spinner are from Bihar and UP respectively. M does not belong to Delhi. While N belongs to Gujarat, L belongs to the category “bowlers”. Who is the Opening Batsman?
a. M			b. L			c. N			d. Cannot be determined

Q2: Six new players L,M,N,O,P and Q were selected to represent the Indian Cricket Team. Their skills were Fast Bowler, Opening Batsman, Wicket Keeper, Spinner, Middle Order Batsman and Medium Pace bowler. Each one belonged to one of the states UP, MP, Gujarat, Delhi, Maharashtra and Bihar not necessarily in the same order. While the category bowlers includes all the 3 types, the category Batsman includes both the Batsmen. Each State is represented by exactly 1 person. P belongs to Maharashtra and is not a bowler. The Wicket Keeper is either O or M and belongs to either Delhi or Bihar. Q is the Fast Bowler from MP. The Opening Batsman and the Spinner are from Bihar and UP respectively. M does not belong to Delhi. While N belongs to Gujarat, L belongs to the category “bowlers”. The Medium Pace Bowler belongs to which State?
a. Bihar		b. Gujarat		c. M.P.			d. None of these

Q3: Six new players L,M,N,O,P and Q were selected to represent the Indian Cricket Team. Their skills were Fast Bowler, Opening Batsman, Wicket Keeper, Spinner, Middle Order Batsman and Medium Pace bowler. Each one belonged to one of the states UP, MP, Gujarat, Delhi, Maharashtra and Bihar not necessarily in the same order. While the category bowlers includes all the 3 types, the category Batsman includes both the Batsmen. Each State is represented by exactly 1 person. P belongs to Maharashtra and is not a bowler. The Wicket Keeper is either O or M and belongs to either Delhi or Bihar. Q is the Fast Bowler from MP. The Opening Batsman and the Spinner are from Bihar and UP respectively. M does not belong to Delhi. While N belongs to Gujarat, L belongs to the category “bowlers”. Who is the Spinner among all the 6 players?
a. M			b. N			c. L			d. Cannot be determined

Q4: The Head of a newly formed Government desires to appoint five of the six elected members A,B,C,D,E, and F in the portfolios of Home, Power, Defence, Telecom and Finance. F does not want any portfolio if D gets one of the five. C wants either Home or Finance or no portfolio.  B says if D gets either Power or Telecom, then she must get the other one. E insists on a portfolio if A gets one. Which is a valid assignment? 
a. A-Home, B-Power, C-Defence, D-Telecom, E-Finance
b. C-Home, D-Power, A-Defence, B-Telecom, E-Finance
c. A-Home, B-Power, E-Defence, D-Telecom, A-Telecom, F-Finance
d. B-Home, F-Power, E-Defence, C-Telecom, A-Finance

Q5: The Head of a newly formed Government desires to appoint five of the six elected members A,B,C,D,E, and F in the portfolios of Home, Power, Defence, Telecom and Finance. F does not want any portfolio if D gets one of the five. C wants either Home or Finance or no portfolio.  B says if D gets either Power or Telecom, then she must get the other one. E insists on a portfolio if A gets one. If A gets Home and C gets Finance, which is not a valid assignment for Defence and Telecom? 
a. D-Defence, B-Telecom
b. F-Defence, B-Telecom
c. B-Defence, E-telecom
d. B-Defence, D-Telecom

Q6: If MADRAS is coded as NZEQBR. How is BOMBAY coded in that code?
a. CPNCPX		b. CNNABX		c. CPOABX		d. CNNCBZ

Q7: In a certain code language, ‘abc’ means ‘hot filtered coffee’. ‘cef’ means ‘very hot day’ and ‘ehi’ means ‘day and night’. Which digit stands for ‘very’? 
a. i			b. e			c. h			d. f

Q8: F is the daughter of C. D is the father in law of G. I and J are brothers of H. E is the son of C. J is the son of F and G. How is H related to D? 
a. Grandson		b. Granddaughter	c. Son			d. Cannot be determined

Q9: F is the daughter of C. D is the father in law of G. I and J are brothers of H. E is the son of C. J is the son of F and G. How is G related to E? 
a. Brother-in-law	b. Father-in-law	c. Mother-in-law	d. Sister-in-law

Q10: Meenakshi said to her friend, "Yesterday I attended the birthday party of the son of the only son-in-law of my mother's mother". How is Meenakshi related to the man, whose birthday party she attended? 
a. Niece		b. Daughter		c. Sister		d. None of these

Q11: When Alok saw Sachin, he recalled, "He is the son of the father of my daughter's mother". Who is Sachin to Alok? 
a. Brother		b. Brother-in-law	c. Father-in-law	d. Uncle

Q12: Five friends are staying in hostel are sitting in a row for dinner. Their names are Sheena, Meena, Reena, Tina & Raveena (not in any order). They are all enrolled in different professional courses of same university. The professional courses they are doing are B.Tech, MBA, M.Tech, MCA & MS (not in any prder). Reena is doing M.Tech and she is not seated at any of the extreme position. No one else is seated at the right side of Raveena. The girl who is doing MCA is seated at immediate right of Meena who is neither doing B.Tech nor MBA. The girl who is doing MS is seated 2nd to the left of Tina. The girl who is doing MBA is at the middle most position. Who is doing MCA?
a. Meena		b. Raveena		c. Sheena		d. Tina

Q13: Five friends are staying in hostel are sitting in a row for dinner. Their names are Sheena, Meena, Reena, Tina & Raveena (not in any order). They are all enrolled in different professional courses of same university. The professional courses they are doing are B.Tech, MBA, M.Tech, MCA & MS (not in any prder). Reena is doing M.Tech and she is not seated at any of the extreme position. No one else is seated at the right side of Raveena. The girl who is doing MCA is seated at immediate right of Meena who is neither doing B.Tech nor MBA. The girl who is doing MS is seated 2nd to the left of Tina. The girl who is doing MBA is at the middle most position. What is the Professional course which is being done by the girl who is seated at the 4th position from left? 
a. MCA			b. M.Tech		c. B.Tech		d. MS

Q14: Five friends are staying in hostel are sitting in a row for dinner. Their names are Sheena, Meena, Reena, Tina & Raveena (not in any order). They are all enrolled in different professional courses of same university. The professional courses they are doing are B.Tech, MBA, M.Tech, MCA & MS (not in any prder). Reena is doing M.Tech and she is not seated at any of the extreme position. No one else is seated at the right side of Raveena. The girl who is doing MCA is seated at immediate right of Meena who is neither doing B.Tech nor MBA. The girl who is doing MS is seated 2nd to the left of Tina. The girl who is doing MBA is at the middle most position. Who is doing MBA? 
a. Meena		b. Raveena		c. Sheena		d. Tina

Q15: Sanjeet starts from point A, walks 20 km in south direction. Now he takes a left turn and walks 28 km before turning left again. Next he walks 6 km and takes a right turn. Now he walks 24 km and takes a right turn again. After walking 15 km, he again takes a right turn and stops after walking 52 km. What is the total distance from point A to his current position? 
a. 103 km		b. 29 km		c. 83 km		d. 37 km

Q16: Gwalior is to the North of Delhi which in turn is South-West to Bangalore. In which direction of Bangalore is Gwalior located? 
a. North-West		b. West			c. South-West		d. Cannot be determined

Q17: To which direction Mansoor is facing if his shadow is falling to his back at 11:05 am? 
a. North		b. East			c. South		d. West

Q18: Neeraj is facing west direction. He took 19 consecutive right turns followed by 10 consecutive left turns. In which direction he is facing now?
a. North		b. East			c. South		d. West

Q19: Ranbeer, Ranjeet, Randheer, Randeep, Ranvijay, Ranpreet and Ranveer are sitting around a circular table for dinner. The 5 of them are facing the center and remaining 2 are facing opposite to the center. One of them who is facing opposite to the center is the immediate neighbor of Ranjeet. Ranbeer is 3rd to the right of Ranveer who is facing the center. Randeep is 3rd to the right of Randheer and both are facing the center. Neither Randheer nor Randeep is immediate neighbor of Ranvijay. One of them who is facing opposite to the center is sitting exactly between Ranpreet and Randeep. Who is 2nd to the left of Ranbeer? 
a. Randheer		b. Ranvijay		c. Ranjeet		d. Ranpreet

Q20: Ranbeer, Ranjeet, Randheer, Randeep, Ranvijay, Ranpreet and Ranveer are sitting around a circular table for dinner. The 5 of them are facing the center and remaining 2 are facing opposite to the center. One of them who is facing opposite to the center is the immediate neighbor of Ranjeet. Ranbeer is 3rd to the right of Ranveer who is facing the center. Randeep is 3rd to the right of Randheer and both are facing the center. Neither Randheer nor Randeep is immediate neighbor of Ranvijay. One of them who is facing opposite to the center is sitting exactly between Ranpreet and Randeep. Who is seated at the immediate left of Ranvijay? 
a. Ranveer		b. Ranjeet		c. Randeep		d. Randheer

Q21: Ranbeer, Ranjeet, Randheer, Randeep, Ranvijay, Ranpreet and Ranveer are sitting around a circular table for dinner. The 5 of them are facing the center and remaining 2 are facing opposite to the center. One of them who is facing opposite to the center is the immediate neighbor of Ranjeet. Ranbeer is 3rd to the right of Ranveer who is facing the center. Randeep is 3rd to the right of Randheer and both are facing the center. Neither Randheer nor Randeep is immediate neighbor of Ranvijay. One of them who is facing opposite to the center is sitting exactly between Ranpreet and Randeep. Who among the following is neighbor of Randeep? 
a. Ranpreet		b. Ranvijay		c. Ranveer		d. Ranbeer

Q22: In a certain code SOCIAL is written as TQFMFR, then how you will code DIMPLE? 
a. EKPTQK		b. EKPQPJ		c. EKPSPJ		d. None of these

Q23: The son of M is the father of N and maternal grand-father of R. S is the daughter of N and sister of B. On the basis of this information, how is M related to B? 
a. Grandfather 		b. Grandfather’s mother	c. Grandfather's father	d. Cannot be determined

Q24: In a certain code, RIPPLE is written as 997735 and LIFE is written as 3965. How is ROCKSTAR written in that code ? 
a. 92332189		b. 91212369		c. 93611219		d. 96321219

Q25: The 7 students of a MBA college – Alok, Mukesh, Gresha, Pawan, Urvashi, Nisha and Shreya will conduct a quiz on each day of a week starting on Monday and ending on Sunday. No 2 students will conduct quiz on same day & no one will conduct quiz twice. They can choose any 1 of the 3 areas for the quiz- HR, Marketing & Finance. Minimum 2 students choose any area and HR is the only topic chosen by 3 students. Alok conducted quiz in HR on Monday. Pawan conducted quiz in Marketing but neither on Saturday nor on Tuesday. Mukesh conducted quiz on Sunday but his area was not Finance. The one who conducted quiz in Marketing conducted it on Tuesday and the one who conducted quiz in Finance conducted it on Saturday. Gresha conducted the quiz on Wednesday. Nisha conducted quiz in HR, but not on Thursday. Urvashi did not conducted quiz in Finance. In which Topic and on which day did Urvashi conducted the quiz? 
a. HR and Wednesday
b. Marketing and Friday
c. HR and Thursday
d. Marketing and Tuesday

Q26: The 7 students of a MBA college – Alok, Mukesh, Gresha, Pawan, Urvashi, Nisha and Shreya will conduct a quiz on each day of a week starting on Monday and ending on Sunday. No 2 students will conduct quiz on same day & no one will conduct quiz twice. They can choose any 1 of the 3 areas for the quiz- HR, Marketing & Finance. Minimum 2 students choose any area and HR is the only topic chosen by 3 students. Alok conducted quiz in HR on Monday. Pawan conducted quiz in Marketing but neither on Saturday nor on Tuesday. Mukesh conducted quiz on Sunday but his area was not Finance. The one who conducted quiz in Marketing conducted it on Tuesday and the one who conducted quiz in Finance conducted it on Saturday. Gresha conducted the quiz on Wednesday. Nisha conducted quiz in HR, but not on Thursday. Urvashi did not conducted quiz in Finance. Who conducted the quiz on Saturday? 
a. Shreya		b. Urvashi		c. Nisha		d. None of these

Q27: The 7 students of a MBA college – Alok, Mukesh, Gresha, Pawan, Urvashi, Nisha and Shreya will conduct a quiz on each day of a week starting on Monday and ending on Sunday. No 2 students will conduct quiz on same day & no one will conduct quiz twice. They can choose any 1 of the 3 areas for the quiz- HR, Marketing & Finance. Minimum 2 students choose any area and HR is the only topic chosen by 3 students. Alok conducted quiz in HR on Monday. Pawan conducted quiz in Marketing but neither on Saturday nor on Tuesday. Mukesh conducted quiz on Sunday but his area was not Finance. The one who conducted quiz in Marketing conducted it on Tuesday and the one who conducted quiz in Finance conducted it on Saturday. Gresha conducted the quiz on Wednesday. Nisha conducted quiz in HR, but not on Thursday. Urvashi did not conducted quiz in Finance. Which one of the following combinations is true? 
a. Pawan—Thursday—HR
b. Shreya—Wednesday—Finance
c. Alok—Monday—HR
d. Nisha—Friday—Marketing

Q28: An award is to be given to a bowler & for that ICC need 4 nominees & final award will be decided by Polling. There are 8 outstanding bowlers chosen who are A, B, C, D, E, F, G & H. While C, D, E & H are fast bowlers, the rest 4 are spin bowlers. Out of 4 nominees, at least 1 each must be from fast bowlers & Spin bowlers. There must be at least 1 nominee from A & D. If H is nominated, neither B nor F can be nominated. If E is nominated, exactly 1 from A or G has to be nominated. If C is nominated, D cannot be a nominated. Which of the following cannot be an acceptable combination for nominees? 
a. C, H, A & G
b. D, E, A & B
c. D, H, F & G
d. C, E, A & B

Q29: An award is to be given to a bowler & for that ICC need 4 nominees & final award will be decided by Polling. There are 8 outstanding bowlers chosen who are A, B, C, D, E, F, G & H. While C, D, E & H are fast bowlers, the rest 4 are spin bowlers. Out of 4 nominees, at least 1 each must be from fast bowlers & Spin bowlers. There must be at least 1 nominee from A & D. If H is nominated, neither B nor F can be nominated. If E is nominated, exactly 1 from A or G has to be nominated. If C is nominated, D cannot be a nominated. If D is 1 of the 2 nominees from fast bowlers, how many possible combinations exist? 
a. 4			b. 5			c. 6			d. 7

Q30: An award is to be given to a bowler & for that ICC need 4 nominees & final award will be decided by Polling. There are 8 outstanding bowlers chosen who are A, B, C, D, E, F, G & H. While C, D, E & H are fast bowlers, the rest 4 are spin bowlers. Out of 4 nominees, at least 1 each must be from fast bowlers & Spin bowlers. There must be at least 1 nominee from A & D. If H is nominated, neither B nor F can be nominated. If E is nominated, exactly 1 from A or G has to be nominated. If C is nominated, D cannot be a nominated. If there are 2 bowlers nominated from spin bowlers, which of the following combinations is not possible for the bowlers to be nominated from fast bowlers? 
a. D & E
b. D & H
c. C & E
d. E & H